In this video, we are gonna take a look
at writing tests for the Owner Spring
Data JPA service and this is actually
issue number 50 down here. I'm gonna
go ahead and assign this to myself to say
that I am actually working on it inside
of GitHub. We're gonna do this a
little bit different from what we did
before. There's actually a couple
different ways to do this. Let me toggle
over to IntelliJ and we'll bring up that
service so we're going to do the OwnerSD
for Spring Data JPA. You can see this
brings into a couple of things. We're not
using the repositories fully. You can see
that that's being highlighted and that
there's two different ways that we could
do this. One is light and that's the way
I prefer to do it and that's using
Mockito.
The other way is to use a Spring
profile to bring up an H2 database and
there's actually a couple different ways
that you can do that. The downside is
if you bring up the Spring context in
the database, your test run a lot longer.
But, the benefit is you're gonna be
testing your persistence layer quite
often with an H2 database. So, depends on
your particular use case, I tend to favor
white weight test. If I need to test
something in persistence layer, I will do
so. I will write tests for that. If
there's an explicit need for that and it
is good to have it. It's not forbidden to
have. I generally like to have my
test lighter. In this example, I'm
gonna show you how to set up Mockito
for this. So we'll come over here, option
enter on the class name, you can see
that's asking me to create a test and
I'm going to do all these guys.
We'll go ahead and throw in a setUp method.
You can see that it's asking us for
JUnit 5 which I am going to take there.
I'm going to say OK. Let's go
ahead, and just like before, I'm gonna
split this horizontally. We'll close
out the top one. So now, I have my class
under test on the top half of the screen
and the test at the bottom of the screen.
Of course, what we want to do is you
can see that I have some repositories
here. I'm just gonna copy these
down to here.
I do get a little looser on
restrictions on test classes so I'm just
gonna give her these like so. So now,
those are the repositories I'm gonna
be working with, and also we want to have
a Owner. We'll just call him
service. So that kind of sets things up.
Now what we wanna do here is in
JUnit 4, we had test runners and JUnit 5
their extensions. So we're gonna do @ExtendWith Mockito. MockitoExtension,
where are you?
I am missing a dependency. I'm gonna
pause this real quick and resolve that.
It's boring. Okay, I jumped ahead a little bit.
What happened is I'm missing a
dependency for Mockito there that's why
that annotation is not coming up. I
looked at the POM and sure enough I was
missing it. I'm gonna go ahead and
add it. I had to look it up because I
don't have everything memorized, believe
it or not. Got it up here. Mockito
JUnit Jupiter is the one that we want.
I'm over in Maven central. You can see
here conveniently copies that to the
clipboard.
Thank you best buy for the ad. We'll
come back over here. Let's go ahead
and paste this in, like so. I'm not
sure if that's in the parent POM or not
so I'm gonna go ahead and do that
see if it resolves. You can see down at
the bottom of the screen, I'm getting
resolving dependencies.
It looks like it might be doing it.
Reemployment projects. You can see
IntelliJ in the background. What it's going
to do is download that for us and I
don't think it resolved it. We can tell for
sure. I want to do the pet-clinic-data. Get the root.
Come up here and let's do a compile. I
should I wanna do a test. Stop you.
I want to see if I can and we see that
the version is missing so that tells me
there that this artifact is not in the
parent POM so I do need to include the
version information, so I'm grabbing the
latest. Now we'll go ahead and do that.
Let's run our test and we'll see. You
should see that download of IntelliJ
didn't beat us to it.
We see that my test does have an
error because I'm half-written that so
that is to be expected so let's go ahead
and close that. We now have the Maven
Dependency there. I don't need the URL
for Maven Central but clean that up.
And now MockitoExtension should show up. So
now, you can see that IntelliJ sees
MockitoExtension because I now have that
on the classpath with that dependency.
I'm telling this to ExtendWith
MockitoExtension. This sets up the
JUnit 5 environment for Mockito. Now
we can do some annotation goodness or
some people might call it annotation
hell.
I'm gonna Mock out the repository. I'm setting up
these two as Mocks.
I'd say that's sets up. And now, we have
this single constructor. So now, what I
can do here, IntelliJ
should be smart or I should say
Mockito should be smart enough to inject
Mocks for that. So that's gonna set up a
service for us and I'm not sure if we're
gonna need that setUp method or not.
So now what I can do is
let's say Owner
service.findByLastName().
I'm just gonna run this to make sure,
that it does in fact execute. See down, I'm doing a build down
the bottom of the screen there. IntelliJ
is building everything. I just wanna make
sure that all the inject mocks run.
Even though this is a very simple test,
what this is telling me because it's did
execute properly and I got a green
testing though I'm not doing anything,
this is telling me that these mocks did
get injected and our service did get
created because if I did that, if the
service was not instantiated by Mockito,
I would have got a null pointer error in
there. So I show you that. If I
just get rid of that and if I run out
like now, I should get an NPE because
that property has not been initiated, so
see there's null pointer. So that tells me
that Mockito is running properly. So
now, let's go ahead and set up some tests
here. Things get a little bit more
interesting with Mockito.
We can do Owner.
So now, we're setting up a returnOwner
like so and I'm doing a that's the
return object that I wanna return back.
Now I can say when.
You can see here IntelliJ is trying to
give us some hints and this can be a
little tricky here. Go ahead and
enter those and say
thenReturn(returnOwner)
like so. I kind of went through this
a little fast so now we have when and
any. These are methods. This will trip
you up especially if you're probably
using something like an Eclipse which
isn't smart enough to and inject these
possibly. It's been a long time since I
use Eclipse. IntelliJ is pretty good at
this. But to bring in these static imports,
if you don't know about these static
imports of when and any, that can really
trip you up. So that's an important thing
that IntelliJ just did for us as far as
managing the imports. So let's come back
down to our test. I just told the
mock, so when service.findByLastName()
and actually that should be... It's my bad
because we are doing findByLastName()
and actually want the ownerRepository.
An easy mistake to make. So I wanna
say when ownerRepository.findByLastName()
is called, I want to return back
that returnOwner because we are going
to test this up here on line 33 to get
back that Owner.
And let's say assertEquals
like so. You can see here, I set the
lastName Smith three times. So let's
come in here. I'm going to refactor. Extract
to Constant.
I will call that
LAST_NAME.
We can see that now that we have
that, we injected a constant of LAST_NAME.
We can see you said consistently
like so. So now, we're gonna set ID to
one, last name lastName LAST_NAME. So
let's go ahead and run those make sure
that it runs now. Just one additional test
I can put in there and that is verify.
This is a little bit redundant but I
just wanna show you how to do the
verify because I'm pretty sure my
Mockito will pop if this does not get
called at any time, but I'm showing you
how to do a verify of a mock interaction.
Now let's go ahead and run that.
And that is
running. This video is getting a little
long. I'm gonna implement the other
methods and then we'll come back and do
a code review on those. I'm gonna
pause this video, implement these other
we'll get five methods here and I'll
review using Mockito to provide a full
implementation though. Let me pause this.
I'll be right back.
If I wish to ask references, can I count
on you to say nice things about me?
Be honest. Do you want to be honest or nice?
Okay, I've jumped ahead a little bit and
we were getting a little long in this
video but I wanted to go through and
implement the remaining methods for our
test for the Spring Data JPA service, and
again, we're using Mockito there.
You can see that I've gone ahead and
implemented them and I'm gonna bring up
the screen here a little bit. I made a
couple changes here. The returnOwner,
what I did here is I moved it up to a
class variable. Now, I am setting that
with it BeforeEach method. What this
is going to do it's gonna reset that
BeforeEach test method is called. So for
everything that I've annotated with a
@Test, this BeforeEach method is gonna
get called and reset that. I'm doing
that. I really didn't have a need to do
that. I could have just initialized it and
been done with it and probably use that
same object for every test. Really, a
just-in-case type thing
I'm going through and going to
reinitialize that. So if I did change
that object at any point in a test, the
next test would get a fresh object
configured the way it should have been at
green field. So, important thing to do
there. Just a kind of safety thing. Even
though I didn't have a specific need in
the set of tests, just a good habit to
get into
to make sure that each test does get the
object expected. We went through
findByLastName(). Let's see here. I'm gonna get
up here to findAll(), and on line 60 there,
I am defining a variable called returnOwnersSet. That's a HashSet I added to
owners and then on line 64 I am using
Mockito when to say when findAll() is
called, I want to return back that owner
set.
So now, that ownerRepository, that
is a mock being managed by Mockito.
On line 66 is when I actually called a
server signification of findAll(). That
is gonna invoke the mock so I should
get back a set of owners from that.
On line 68, I am doing assertNotNull
and that I'm expecting a list size of two.
So now, let's take a look at line 73 for
findById(). Here you can see again, I'm
working with the ownerRepository mock.
I'm saying findById() and I have a
match or there of anyLong(). So anyLong()
value can go in there and then I'm gonna
return back an Optional off returnOwner.
So let's take a quick look at this. I
want to take a look at the actual
implementation. So again, I got the
test there. I wanna return back the
Optional owner and this is findById(). So
if I come back to findById(), what's
happening here is I'm collapsing out
that optional to return back an Owner
object or null. So I'm gonna say orElse(null).
So if it's not found. Actually I
can write another test here because I'm
testing for just test make sure that I
return back a value. But let's make
another test.
I'm just gonna copy and paste him.
Call him not found. And now, rather turn
back an Optional of owner, I'm gonna return back
an Optional.empty(). My test condition
says stays the same so I'm gonna call
up by ID, and now, I wanna make sure that
that Owner object is null.
Nice spelling it found their John. Like
that. Not found. So now, my
findById() I'm testing to pass because I do
have that findById() orElse(). So one the
first test is gonna make sure that I
returned back a value that  gets
found by the repository or no orElse()
I'm gonna say the repository didn't find
anything. So doing two branches there.
Let's take a look at the save option
there. I'm scrolling up a little bit.
You can see here I created an ownerToSave
on line 93 and then I go in and save
that on line 97 but I set up the mock
on line 95. So when the ownerRepository
save method is called, I'm gonna say
any object there. I'm gonna return back
my returnOwner object. In this case,
I just wanna make sure that the save
method was called. I could even do
I could add in a verify(ownerRepository).
I can put in an
assertion there just to make doubly sure.
I'm pretty sure Mockito
if the save method does not get called
I'm having that set up and it will
squawk about that. This is kind of
optional to do that. I'm just showing you
how to use the verify method here to
make sure that a mock interaction did
occur. You can see here this is will
run. Bring up a little bit. Now the delete
methods, you can see up here, the two
delete methods, these both return a void
so we are calling a method and that
method is going to interact with an
object, the injected ownerRepository.
We're gonna interact with delete() and
deleteById() but we don't return a value.
This is a really good example of
using the verify because here on line
185 in the lower half of the screen, I'm
doing service.delete() and I'm passing in
an owner object. In here, I'm saying
verify the ownerRepository delete
method is called one time and verify
there's a bit. Oh there. Okay. Verify
mock times. Been a while since I use that.
So you can do verify.
You could write it like that. I'm
gonna put it in a comment here.
You don't have to do the times there
if it's just getting implemented
once. That's why I didn't quite remember
the syntax off the top of my head there.
So you can to verify the mock and number
times. If I was expecting this
condition to get hit more than once, I
could specify it like that. Down on
line 117, that's more concise syntax
where the verify option assumes by
default one interaction so if it's gonna
get interacted with multiple times,
we could specify that. But in this case,
we only have to verify one. You can
see the contrast between line 110 and
117. Let's go ahead and run all the
tests here. It will make sure that all
the tests for the Spring Data Owner JPA
Service does run. We can see that all
the tests are green so I'm gonna close
this out. This video is definitely
getting a little long, but we covered
quite a bit of ground here with Mockito
giving you some guys really good
examples of using Mockito with JUnit 5.
This is by no means meant to be
a comprehensive guide on Mockito because
we are really just scratching
the surface of it. So we are going to
call this test good and we'll close
this out.
That closes out number 50 and I will commit
that and adding in that closes number 50
We will close the issue in GitHub.